---
layout: post
title: "C over C++"
date: 2020-02-23 18:01
category: 
author: Revathi Polisetty
tags: [C++, C]
summary: Highlighting features present in C but not in C++
image : 11.jpg
---

### Highlighting features present in C but not in C++

* **void** pointer:
   
   Assigning any pointer type to a **void** pointer without using a cast is allowed in both C++ and ANSI C. In ANSI C, we can also assign a **void** pointer to a non-void pointer. This is not allowed in C++. For example,

    {% highlight C++ %}
    void *ptr1;

    char *ptr2;

    ptr2 = ptr1;{% endhighlight %}

are valid statements in ANSI C but not in C++. A void pointer cannot be directly assigned to other type pointers in C++. We need to use a cast operator as shown below.
    
    {% highlight c++ %}
    ptr2 = (char *)ptr1;{% endhighlight %}

* **enum**:
  
  ANSI C defines the types of **enum**s to be **int**s. In C++, each enumerated data type retains its own separate type. This means that C++ does not permit an **int** value to be automatically converted to an **enum** value.

    {% highlight C++ %}
    enum color{red, blue, green, yellow};

    color background = blue; //allowed

    color background = 7; //error in C++

    color background = (color) 7; //no error{% endhighlight %}

However, an enumarated value can be used in place of an **int** value.

    {% highlight C++ %}
    int c = red; //valid, color type promoted to int{% endhighlight %}

* **char** array:
  
  When initializing a character array in ANSI C, the compiler will allow us to declare the array size as the exact length of the string constant. For instance,

    {% highlight C++ %}
    char str[3] = "xyz";{% endhighlight %}

is valid in ANSI C. It assumes that the programmer intends to leave out the null charancter \0 in the definition. But in C++, the size should be one larger than the number of characters in the string.

    {% highlight C++ %}
    char str[4] = "xyz"; //valid for C++{% endhighlight %}

## References

* Object-Oriented Programming with C++ by E Balagurusamy